We know the theory, but let's see how we actually implement it. Before ES2015,
You had to use the "var" keyword.
And that's why you'll see a lot of JavaScript code with the var keyword. And all you have to do is
put the name of your container, the name of your variable, after the VAR keyword.
Here we've got var name, var balance and var loggedIn.
But just remember, at this stage, we've not yet assign values to these variables.
So the value of each variable will be undefined.
And this brings us on step 2. Remember what step 2 was? that was when you initialized your variable.
And that means that JavaScript engine assigns the variable to memory.
That's all it means. If you've done nothing else in your code,
you've done nothing more,
you've still just written var name, var balance & var loggedIn.
And remember when it assigns this to memory, it is going to place an undefined value to each of those
variables because we have not yet assigned a value.
And this brings us to the final and most important step, and that is, assigning a value to a variable.
We use the equals sign as an assignment operator.
And that just means assign Wally Smart to the variable "name".
That's all that that means.
(swoosh sound)
Something I want to show you before we move on is this var keyword that we use to define a variable.
This was the old school way.
But I just want you to understand how it works.
So let's just  open up the Console.
And let's define, using the old school var way. So let's say var
user is Wally Smart.
This is what's going to happen.
We've now defined this user in the var variable. To call the user, we just have to type it and the computer,
the parser, the browser knows that it's a variable.
It knows the value is Wally Smart.
But this is what's interesting.
Every single variable that you use in your code has either local or global scope.
And like I said, we're going to get into scope later.
All that means is that if it's a global scope, it's visible absolutely everywhere and you can use
that variable everywhere.
If it's locally scoped, that means that you can only use it in limited situations.
With the var keyword, which is what we've done here,
if we're not defining it within a function, it is going to have automatically global scope.
And let me show you this.
This is what's cool.
If we type the "window" object into our console and remember we went over the window object, we went over
the BOM, in one of the previous lectures.
If we open this up.
I would expect us to be able to find user.
And there it is.
There's  our user that we've defined. Wally Smart.
What that means is that it's available globally.
We can use that absolutely anywhere.
We can even use it in a function and it'll know what it is. Let me show you.
Now, let's use it in a function, I'll show you that we've got access to this variable called user,
anywhere.
Let's just call the function 'test' for lack of a better word.
And let's console.log user.
Understand what it is we've just done here, we've used a variable user in function. But this function
scope, it's never, we've never defined user, so where is it going to get it from?
Well, it's going to get it from the global scope. And all we have to do is call the function and to
call a function
you just state the function name, which is test, and you have the brackets, and that just means execute.
So let's execute it.
And there you go.
It console logs the user, which in this case is Wally Smart.
Hope it's making sense.
But let's move on to more important ways to declare variables, and that is with the "let" and "const"
keyword.